---
layout: post
title:  "Practice Altruism"
date:   2018-04-08 17:32:15 -0700
categories: happiness, emotional intelligence
---
[The little things one can do to increase happiness] won't surpise you any more than "_eat less and exercise more_" does. The main things are to commit to some simple behaviors– meditating, exercising, getting enough sleep– and to practice altruism. One of the most selfish things you can do is help others. Volunteer at homeless shelter. You may or may not help the homeless, but you will almost surely help yourself. And nurture your social connections. Twice a week, write down three things you're grateful for, and tell someone why." 

–– Daniel Gilbert, as intereviewed by Gardiner Morse for the Harvard Business Review

***


> I'm doing reasonably well exercising and getting enough sleep, but altruism is something I've fallen farther away from than I'd like, and this line about "practicing altruism" is what I needed to hear. The idealism of my youth has (predictably. sadly.) faded somewhat, and the farther I let that loss go unchecked, the worse I feel about myself.
>
>I'd like to say I practice altruism at the shelter or in some noble form, but the place I remember this the most is at work, with my colleagues and customers. When I'm in the mindset of helping others, I go about my workday completely differently. Instead of seeing every email as time wasted, those same emails become opportunities to help and connect with the people I'm already surrounded by, and who's support I continually rely on.
>
>And in any case, whatever scrooge you're willing to be, it just doesn't work to focus soley on your own needs. Give freely according to your ability, and opportunities have a way of coming back to you.
>
>James